Okay so yesterday I got very pissed off
at Kad because
honestly it's kind of a sucky program
what did we do we kind of didn't do
anything
so so what we did is we found we found
this
hello dude that's what I'm saying bro
this program is just so annoying
I think if I do this and I click M no
wait I move
something you have to like get lucky and
click on the thing that selects the
whole thing anyways so we did this and
we Associated a new footprint with it
and if we go and we
uh look at this so this is the
schematic s this is the symbol editor
and so if we go
to
here we can see we made a custom
footprint where we removed the um we
removed the copper traces that go above
it because we don't need them but then
also if we do
this we have female headers but now what
I did yesterday was I just took the 3D
model that is in the default Kad library
and I just offset it to where it should
be but now the problem with that and the
reason why this really is not going to
work is that if I want to get this
ordered you just can't give someone a a
step file and assume that they know what
part is actually associated with that so
what we're going to try to do is is
um figure
out
basically
um I'm down to make a new symbol and a
new footprint but I
want them to
know which
part for
so this is like the biggest distributor
I guess so or it's like I mean if it's
used in Easy Eda it's got to be a really
good so okay so what we want to do is we
want to just type in
2.54 1 by
20 I like this search actually and then
we do male or
female no part
yet so it has these but they're out of
stock that's kind of interesting
let's try like
a one by
four okay so instead of doing a search
cuz the search is probably not that good
we want to do is we want to go to
connectors I think that there's going to
be a pin
headers yeah so there's these so but we
want pin socket that's that's what it's
called pin
socket female headers that's what it's
called so instead of socket it's called
female headers right and so
now there's literally 118,000 of these
and those are just the
listings so this is 2x 20
so wait can I so if I do this and then I
type just
20 but then I I want to apply filters
wait now see that's what I'm saying
dude their search is actually like not
that good
wait how do
you I thought that there was
um oh I guess this is the only
one it's just such a random searching
thing but I'm surprised that there's
no so if you click on this okay you
actually get a
thing it has a data
sheet it has an easy Eda
model right so LC is pretty tied into
this so okay so you can see the symbol
and you can see the
footprint and
so now the question is basically we need
to make a custom footprint that is just
two of these but it it links to this
part because if it doesn't a discontin
okay so why don't we just search in here
because I feel like the integrated one
is actually not that good so what does
this mean 1
Point dude what is going
on oh my
god dude if I do control shift oh it's
supposed to
oh p is just pins yeah so it doesn't
have anything to do with whether it's
male or female wait this is the whole
data
sheet well what's
that that's
cool so it's this is discontinued though
so that's what I'm saying is we need to
find if I just search for
this four parts
and this is discontinued that's so weird
there's no way that this is like true if
we just go to
this and we P =
2.54 dude I'm so I'm literally so
surprised is it is it weird that I'm so
surprised there's one remaining wait can
I do apply filters
why isn't it Why didn't it apply the
filter let's there we go pre-order first
off this isn't even
right it's actually crazy it's so hard
to make a all right so wait what if we
reset
this oh you know what they have surface
mount pitched things okay so let's just
do this 20 and we search with
that and then we need single
row okay so there's our
part and the cost for five of them is 15
cents so that's super
cheap this is 14
cents that's just so interesting man cuz
you really get into supply chain stuff
like who is making what and that's
something that that like that's why when
I did it in Kad you're kind of afraid to
like you're kind of afraid to order cuz
you just don't know
okay so now what I want to do is I
should be able to see but this is the
most hilarious thing is their searches
so bad because this the title of this
product is not like pin connector or
something it has a description but it's
just
like yeah it's so funny so what we want
to do is uh hopefully let's just see if
I click on
this free
trial I wish I could just all right all
right well let's just um do this I
actually want to look at this too see
okay so most of it is just a
geometry okay so we want to go in here
and we want to search for
this awesome so we want to place this
and we want two of these but so we want
actually a custom symbol
yeah so
um so let's see how can I do a custom
thing okay
um welcome back in the previous video we
introduced that easyeda provides
millions of schematic simple and for
print library for free in Daily project
development we can easily find a
component we want on the internet
however hold on
learning how to create a schematic
symbol and is still a very important and
necessary skill in this video I will
show you how to create an ne555
schematic symbol click file new to
create a schematic symbol control s to
save and name it n e555 choose an owner
here I choose the owner as an individual
or you can choose as a team click here
to
save we can draw the schematic symbol
here we need to refer to the data sheet
before we draw here I recommend search
ne555 in LCSC Electronics choose one and
click the
sheet find the pin configuration here
and we will draw the schematic symbol
base on it as the picture shows there
are eight pins on ne555 and the shape is
rectangular so we draw a rectangle
here and place eight
pins space to
rotate left click to
cancel then addit the pin attributes
click the pin you want to addit and
check is configuration in the data sheet
the name of this pin is g& D then we
modify the name
here repeat the previous operation to
complete the P
naming after finishing the naming you
can adjust the pin spacing appropriately
press and hold control to select
multiple
pins where a schematic symbol is
complete but here is a faster way to
create a symbol and that is to use our
symbol wizard click the symbol wizard on
the
menu we can choose a different style
here for ne555 we choose thepa addit the
Ping information here click okay well a
beautiful schematic symbol is that's
great that's very nice so we're
definitely going to be doing
that uh and we'll just have uh
yeah um well okay but what we actually
want to do so now we want to look at
yeah create PCB
footprint welcome back we have learned
how to create a schematic symbol of
ne555 in this video we will create a
footprint for it open the555 data sheet
find land pattern data here okay so what
I'm interested in is not just the
footprint but if they attach it to an
actual part because that's what's
important data wor noting the distance
between these two pins is 1.27 MM the
width of the two rows of pins is 5.4 mm
we will follow this data to create the
footprint click file new
footprint control s to save let's name
it s
op8 place a pad here click the
pad select top layer and change it shape
to O check the data
sheet it width should be 0.6 mm and
height should be 1.55 mm
place this pad at the
origin space to rotate Place Another pad
before we place another pad we have to
modify the green snap size to facilitate
alignment the pink page is 1.27 so we
change the greap size to
17 click pad to place now the spacing of
each pad is
1.27 ah okay see this is actually a
really good video cuz it just shows you
how to do it
like yeah two rows of is 5.4 click the
smart Dimension here click the first pad
and then click the second pad oh no way
bro that's what I'm talking about that's
what I was looking for in Kad yesterday
that's the right way to do it
5.4 oh wait we want to look at click
forat align right now we can delete this
sign qu the smart Dimension now we draw
S screen select top s layer before
drawing we need to change the G slid
back to 0 point 1
27 press the tab to change the
width detailed adjustment here drawing
AR place a small circle to indicate the
position of the first
pin now we place the entire component at
origin click Place set canvas Orion by
Center of pads control s to
save back to the schematic symbol click
footprint here switch to the select tab
class is the workspace my library or
this is the one we just created click
update now we have successfully created
and bound theprint and schematic symbol
we will demonstrate how to buy a 3 Model
to in the next video
goodbye welcome back in the previous
video we have learned how to create
ne555 schematic symbol and S8 footprint
in this video we will learn how to b a
3D model to it there is a 3D model text
box in the right panel click to get into
the 3D model manager because the
footprint we create is sop8 so we can
search for sop8 directly you can choose
a 3D model between different Library
workspace LCSC library and user
contributed here I recommend choosing
the LCSC Library there are many 3D
models of sop8 with different size the
detail size of n55 is provided to us in
the data sheet the length is about 4.9
and the width is about 6.0 height is
about 1.75 we can choose a model close
to the size of m55 or this one click to
bind here is a
preview click update after the update is
complete the footprint is B to the 3D
model which just selected in future
development we can directly use the
footprint with 3D model control s to
save update the symbols for
free double click successfully updated
next I will demonstrate how to add a 3D
model to the 3D model manager click file
new 3D model select a model unit that
matches your 3D model file click help
here this is a tutorial on how to buy 3D
models EA currently supports and OBG
files after join the mod this 3D model
select a model unit that matches your 3D
model file click help here this is a
tutorial on how to bind 3D models
currently supports and obj files after
joining the model with 3D modeling
software you can export this toat to
import e da or you can download the 3D
model on these websit this document
explains the detail process of importing
3D models into
e e is developing 3D model export and
simple 3D model modeling functions and
it will be on by soon see you next video
goodbye welcome back in the previous
video we have learned how to create an
ne555 schematic symbol and s48 wait what
the heck in this video hello everyone in
this video we will explore EAS EA's
massive component Library we provide
more than 1 million free libraries
including schematic symbols PCB
Footprints component reading models and
corresponding simulation models I've
introduced them one by one first we
introduced the elip and library in
standard mode El includes com Supply
flag like g&d and VCC you can choose a
different flag with the put down menu
here are the resistors you can also
choose different footprint with the put
down
menu potential meter capacitor inductor
battery holder power socket connector
DB9 and USB you can choose USB type a
male or female and micro or mini
USB button switch di you can choose
different color and different Footprints
of
LEDs transistor regulator display if you
don't find the components you need here
while working you can search in the
library for example I search for
n555 now the search engine is easy EA
the type is Syle classes include
workspace
LCSC the lpcp system the users you
follow contributed and all you
right so what I'm worried about is
that that's not going to work
but I want it to work that's what that's
what's so
confusing okay wait I want to go to this
this
extended part what does that
mean see that's the interesting thing
though it's
like okay wait I want to do this let's
just start this so we're going to do
file new schematic just like they did
and now I want to copy in I don't want
to draw it by hand I want to copy it it
in oh
nice so we're in the symbol
editor it's going to be like
this but what we actually
want
is
um hold on wa can I just import dxf wait
hold
on how do I import a schematic from
Kad
for
e
for for
okay
so we can't extend this out anymore
okay so this is a symbol so we want to
delete this information and then we just
want
to
uh wait what the hell
wait can I just
okay oh
okay so where was it I totally don't
remember I think it was just
downloads
this this
wait a zip archive
I want to import just
a oh no
okay so what we want to do wait but I
have
the
symbol I mean that's their whole
documentation
[Music]
okay so let's just do the archive thing
then
what did what was that
[Music]
picture wait does this have the
uh wait wait we want the other one
though is there a zip file for the other
one
oh you got to be kidding me
okay it's
fine so wait what if we just do
this um
youday to
[Music]
that oh wait you know what we could do
we might be able to um
um is this the this this symbol is
correct can we just
export right if you go to properties and
then you go
to change symbol edit
symbol so if you go to
oh
this pin
table perfect so how do you export the
pin table
what I mean you would expect it but I
didn't see
it but if I just copy it
that
works sort
of there was no export button
yeah you just copy it
hilarious so
um okay
okay so we're going to ignore those last
ones then we're going to go into here
here
oh nice there we go so now what we want
to do is we want
to oh my
God so now this is the tough part
because it really feels like there's not
a way to
there maybe there
is is there a way to
insert okay wait so we have this
thing we want this footprint where where
is this
live okay so we're going to do this can
we insert a footprint into a footprint
uh yeah yeah
um I mean that's nice to know about
what the hell
okay
what does that mean
did I watch this full
video make sure that you check the
dimensions and the PIN numbers with the
data sheet of the component because
there might be errors made by other
creators okay so this is my chip i s
that and place it on the schematic now I
user contributed group and here we can
find all the components created by other
users but if you use one from this group
make sure that you check the dimensions
and the P numbers with the DAT sheet of
the component because there might be
errors made by other creators okay so
this is my chip I that and place it on
the schematic now I do the same from
some resistors capacitors and a qu
Crystal of 160 MHz make sure of the
package all circuits will have a ground
connection and at least one power
connection for that go in the E library
on the left side enter and you select
the wire which icons so understand it I
for configuration of the the component
that you have to search for that we
click let's see how to make one let's
say that for output one okay now I have
the basic configuration of the and I
like to close it in a separate square
and divide maatic into multiple parts
for power for outputs Min and so on but
now what about if you don't find the
component that you need so let's see how
to make one let's say that Mega 228 I
want to use doesn't appear in the e
Library you have to search the component
that sheet on Google and open the layout
size page I have the SD version so this
is the layout let's first make the
symbol for that we click file new
schematic leave and let add some pins
click the pin tool theega 228 has 32
pins eight pins on each side first I
create eight pins now I press the r key
and I place the other pins till I get up
to 32 now select the rectangle tool and
let's make a rectangle shape I mve the
pin number inside of the rectangle you
can change the name of the PIN to text
and add labels such as BCC round digital
pins and so on if you want just double
click on the text change the name and
press enter but don't change the p
number that's very important finally you
have to select the canas origin tool and
place it with the orig will be when the
symbol is ready go to file sa as and I
have to give a name and the description
if you want I'll give a name to the
symbol as8 p and click save see look at
that how did how did oh okay now we have
to make the PCB layout for this
component for that we go to file new PCB
Le this will open a new design now open
me 220 dat sheet here we have all the
dimensions for our pads the width the
distance the placement and so on first
make a right click on the canvas and
make sure that will work in millimeters
we will need 32 SMD pads for that click
the pad tool Place one pad on the design
select the pad and change it from mul
layer to top layer now change the shape
from round to rectangle on the she you
can see that the WID of the P 0.4 mm and
the length is 075 mm so you have to play
those measurements here in the WID and
height then change the SL Mas expansion
to 0.01 now make sure that the first B
is in 0 position now duplicate the p and
rotate it change the white position of
the second to I I already watched this
dude I the thing I just don't understand
is so I think the way that I would do
this
honestly is I
would take
this okay yeah I would do
this
oops and I would take one two
20 wait wait wait how do I
there we
go so I would do it like this and then I
would do another one
and these both have oh they don't have a
footprint associated with
them can I just search for that thing
again
wait what if I um wait but when I wait
where is my other
guy um
oh wait okay so in
here oh wait
wait you
two
footprint oh
wait wait workspace
all how do I use this footprint for
this oh there we
go
[Music]
um can I search the part number probably
not right
is so
annoying I just want to copy it I just
want to use
this okay what if I what if I do this
um how do I like import
dude this this stuff is such a
pain wait can I modify this why don't I
just modify
this edit
symbol is there easier
way this is the only
way okay well in that case we're just
going to do
this oh wait can I I can do it like that
that's basically just as difficult
wait let's try to
um wait can I open the footprint of this
thing
how do I open it in the footprint editor
how do how do I open a compon how do I
open an
existing symbol in the
editor oh edit Okay so
um oh wait
um is that what it
was you a l okay wait first Library let
me search it so
Library let me search this
thing CED oh yeah footprint
oh
wait wait oh wait you know what I want
to do though I want to um take this
C copy this cancel shift
F
this and then edit okay nice so wait I
want to I'm going to want to save this
as something so I'm going to take this
whole thing and copy
it and then I'm okay wait oh
wait but I don't think that this is
going to work but let's do this smart
dimensioning
thing oh in this we need it to be
[Music]
um how do you do that smart dimensioning
thing
again okay wait so let's close this
don't save it let's close
this okay so what what is this called
there we
go file save as
oh I want to see
that is there just a tool
to dude I have I I am bumbling around
here see that's like the wrong part
though that's what's interesting about
this can
I wait but if I click on
this click on
this see this whole thing has one
okay first off where is it getting that
3D so this 3D model is just a standard
thing the part number is not linked I
want to add
parameter 3D model pre wait can we
undo we can't undo gosh okay so I'm
going to go back here shift F this thing
edit wait if I close this did I mess
everything up
here edit okay no so it's the same so I
want to replace it
though wait but that link is that
really I feel like it doesn't do
anything with
that for
okay so
um use two parts for single foot
print dude what the
heck for
oh
God
for for
so what is the pro so let's close some
of this stuff
so e
schematic PCB probably PCB
wait what the
hell oh okay
well I wonder okay wait can
we okay I think what we should do is
probably
um let's think about
this what is the easiest way to do this
the easiest way to do this is to just
save
this these both have the right thing we
would change the name then we'd go to
uh view
design convert schematic to P keep going
can we just hide them we don't really
need
these 15 cents how baller is that man
dude I love it I love it I love it check
Nets actually don't want to check
Nets con convert schematic to PCB no
keep going please save your file
save convera no keep going okay so
now yeah so now first off can we just
make this real big oh oh my
gosh there oh that's how you do it
okay okay so what we
want is we need to do a dimension thing
can we do we have Smart dimension in
here
I wish it had a snap for vertic for
horizontal
this h
is there a way to put a constraint on
this
thing right so that's a goofy as hell
but that's that's basically it
oh you know what we should do we should
just
manually okay if this is
here where's its
position let select
this so we just need to put
this this is going to be this Plus 17.78
what you can't put in
a oh wait
um and then how do I how do I do view
to there's no uh keyboard shortcut for
that okay so that does look like it fits
a Pico and that'll work it's
just the issue now is that we what we
have to do is we have to go into here
and we have to like I wish there was a
way to mass edit this
thing easier but let's just do it I mean
who
cares gpio and we're going to just copy
that because we're going to be writing
that a lot zero
oh my
God yeah they have no keyboard shortcuts
here so this is really like the worst
it's it's actually insane
how
bad Eda tools are like I'm just so
shocked that it's always
like I don't know man out of all of
these tools that I've been
using Eda is like by like even CAD is
pretty good so now we have pin eight
that's
ground pin
nine
gpio
6 78
nine
ground
14 15 all right well it wasn't that bad
but it it is like pretty bad and then is
there a way to like format this
nicer honestly I don't really give a
this is just the way that I figured
out we can do
this
wait okay great so
now this is going to be kind of silly
but
whatever
VBS V
sis
e
e e
and of course I was muted the whole
freaking
time
whatever um yeah so we need to figure
this out because
cuz how should we we should develop a
convention it should probably
go lowest to
highest so this is
right so that means one is going to be
ground okay so let's do this one is
going to
be gnd
D1 bdd
3v3 1
b 1
a 2 a 2
B ground
two
V mode
all right so now we just want to do
this
wait there we go and then we have to
copy that stuff over
again so what do I think is the easiest
I feel like the easiest is actually to
just modify these then so what you do is
you just go in here edit symbol pin
name just going to do not n
so now
this which is pin one pin one is down
there right so we need to
do oops
so I feel like this is the easiest way
because then you don't have to manually
copy in all that information but both
ways are like way slower than I feel
like they could
be
um okay so let's
just delete this so now this constitutes
the stepper drivers so now if we save
this and then we go to V
uh what is it alt
p and so now we just need to make sure
that I'm fine leaving that in because
we're not going to be able to change
these probably
not all right so let's just keep it
pushing I
guess so in so wait can we just close
all this
stuff God I hate goys
now it would be nice to I wonder if I
can actually use a custom if I take this
and can I edit it
I think I can
actually it's like when we do
this
oops I want to
uh oh yeah hold on so you have to go
here uh that's it then
then what I want to do is you do you do
shift F then you switch back over to
easyeda footprint and you then you
search for
this then you click on this and you
click
edit I wonder if that's harder than if
we were to just let's take let's take
this part
and we're going to move them over here
and we're going to space space space
wait is that
right it really doesn't matter but the
point
being we could add silk screen text
everywhere
so s's text
okay wait but not on the copper layer we
want to activate the top silk layer
so this is going to be
um I don't even
remember it's yeah what's crazy is that
there isn't like a python way to do this
to script out managing this because once
you have code then you can be way more
flexible with I just want to add a bunch
of text to the silk screen it's not that
complicated but so I could do that or
what I could do is I want to save
as
my or stepper driver side one or left
side
so we have this so now what I want to
do is activate the silk
layer
text I
believe that I can take this
font size
this is actually Wild
so then you just go
here what is this one I can't believe I
can't remember it's going to
go yeah wait is
it oh okay
what is this this is
step this is
dur so I believe that
um we're not going to lose the
information so uh wait first off let's
just check that that's right it goes
step and dir perfect so now we can save
this and now I think what I can do is I
can take this and instead of this this
footprint wait is that the one that I
want yeah whatever so I can do this and
then I can
do
workspace wait where did it save
it where is it where did that go to
wait but let me um what if I just
search there we
go and it still has the uh it still has
that so that's really good actually
Okay cool so maybe this won't be the
worst thing
ever maybe it
will the goofy thing is
um is the dimensioning because you I
don't think you can
dude I really need someone to respawn to
this is this just a dead internet type
of place
whatever so
um uh so I guess I just need
to uh do the exact same thing again
where I uh
oh wait why don't I just do this I'm
just going to change these into a save
as so
[Music]
um see how do I want to do
this can I duplicate this tab
[Music]
wait that's pin one though so that needs
to
be for
now we do a file save
as right
side you save it and then
now we can
take this
and ground one ground one that's perfect
okay so the only thing about this is
this needs to be
like can I select this
text I wonder if I can select multiple
text
this is
fine I'm happy with that you just need
to do this
oh
[Music]
all right so let's
um so I mean once it's done it's done
and saved so we can
um enclose this close this so what we're
going to do is we're going to find this
footprint we're going to copy it we're
going to search for it we're going to go
to easy a footprint and we're going to
SP do this and
not uh but
this and we're going to look at just
this plain old one I don't know what I
don't know what this
is but um
and we're going to edit
it and now
here all we need to do is
um add the
text am I on the silk screen right now
no
for
I wonder actually look if we click on if
we um wait if we just click
here okay wait let's
um yeah that's fine so let's do this oh
I should have CED C it
actually yeah see that's the wild part
about
that and then you can't oh you can't
undo it wait so let's copy this
link first off this is not even the
right thing that's what's weird about
this is that's not even the right
thing or is it wait if I
do
[Music]
view uh
I don't know what that link is
because that just doesn't seem
right
for
for for
all right let's just get this done so
once cuz once we
have the Pico and the stepper drivers I
think that those are the only things
that slot in I think everything else is
just normal pin headers we still want to
have the silk screen so that you know I
guess
can you you can import a dxf you can
import an image
oh my
god oh and now you can't undo
it oh my gosh that's actually insane oh
there we go you can't do it while you're
in place mode I guess
for
what
okay okay so now we're going to do
this uh save as
PE my
peal
left we're going to save
that okay let's just do the right now so
now we need to do this
[Music]
again and so this is going to
be
uh 20
on
ground
run actually is there a way
to no I don't care I don't care we're
almost done with
this for
okay so now we're going to save this as
my Pico right
okay now we should be able to take this
this
Pico my Pico left update
footprint my Pico right update
footprint now if we save
this and we um import changes
and then this just needs to be
um like that all right so we can start
okay so now we have the stepper drivers
and their silk screens and we have the
Pico and it's silk
screen um figuring out a dimension for
this is going to be weird it's also
going to be really a pain in the butt to
move let's see if this
works so we do it like
this oh no yeah it's going to be upside
down so if I were to select this wait
no but
that that we don't really want
because well first off it's
wrong but the other thing
is it
um um
honestly am I okay with
this so that means that okay so in
the so what we want to do is we want to
actually edit my Pico
right and okay let's just try to select
two of these and we flip
them see how that doesn't do we need to
do
this
for for
okay we can save this and now presumably
if I do an import
change see that's what I'm saying though
is like like in on shape on shape is
example of a good program well in some
some some somewhat good
program because at least it's
syned all right so let's go here what if
I just delete this whole thing and then
do import
changes okay so that's much better
oh that's cool we've opened this to your
last red page
that's what I'm saying okay 17.78 that
is the
number it's too bad we don't get
anything for the stepper but 12.7 is
probably a correct
guess okay so we just need to edit
um stepper
right this is left
right
okay let's save that now we just want to
do this
this I feel like if I just whatever I
don't
know I don't know
cool
wait wait we only did one of
them wait no he
didn't wait I'm so confused
wait
what wait why is this one right
bro let me just delete
everything there we go
oh okay so there are the stepper
drivers
for
for for
yeah
for
for for
h
all right so we're finally ready to
start doing our schematic for real
because now I'm sort of set up and
situated now that I have you know
uh I
have both of these things that
symbolically represent the Pico and the
stepper driver have supplier Parts on it
so it's not
like it's not like when we go to export
the bomb like okay let's
let's save this fabrication
bomb we have prices for all of
this for
that
for
for for
[Music]
wait what is the difference between this
X price
and yeah it's $3
wait
what
for
for for
I don't know what I just did
whoa oh
I feel like they're partnered
what's
pcba oh
that's hu that's a huge
PCB you can order 880,000 from them
wow for
[Music]
China Silicon Valley
oh my God
do they own
jlc we're proud to support your
Innovative dream
I mean it sort of makes sense for for
LCSC to try to
like I mean that's the thing is the
vision for these companies that that
they can literally make your entire
product that would be amazing though
doing a project where
you you have them 3D print you have them
CNC you have them PCB assembly and then
you have them assemble
it literally the full the full
Industrial
design
like tool it's pretty
insane
okay so um how do we want to do this
oh I guess we're going to flip
these and then the question actually is
uh where's the pin out here we
go ice s c Zero ice s c one okay so yeah
just in case we want to actually use the
magnetic encoders at any
point uh we have two
addresses so
basically that's what I'm saying
bro bruh okay so we just need to make
hella Flags
so first we need to name these
oh wait but that's not how we want to do
it well
what
no okay
oh
wait oh my gosh dude I swear these
programs are designed to humiliate
bro that's so
insane programs are made by evil
people
okay
for for
nice
um let's just do uh
I don't actually know how
they oh I guess we want yeah the screw
terminal okay wait so is is this how you
do it then you do
a are you supposed to just put this on
here like that ultimately probably
lowers the same
thing so then you do you do this and you
do
this and then you do
but this is actually silly
because
[Music]
um wait let's just go to the other one
and copy it
it was um
this and this has a yeah okay
where the hell is the board
outline where do where
what what the hell
I think I just need to click this and
then draw a rectangle
right okay so that's not
it setting for board outline board
outline give me board
outline how do you do the board outline
for
shapes not like the Christmas tree where
I imported a drawing not actually draw
them yourself so this is really simple
but it's not very intuitive how you do
this let me show you I've got a blank
PCB open here and the first thing you
want to make sure you do is set the your
layer to the board outline okay oh you
do it with line I need that for now I'm
going to drag it off here so once we've
done that we know we're drawing on the
right layer next grab this tool here
which is your canvas origin that's going
to set your zero Z Point boom so now we
have our z0 point and we're ready to
draw so let's assum we know the size of
our board is going to be a 50 mm by a 50
mm kind of like an octagon rectangle
sort of thing so we can start by drawing
tracks that's actually what you use to
draw
these so
zero let's
start kind like
this now I'm going to massage
these once I get the drawing kind of how
I want it
I should move that down no
worries I escape to go up there start
right
here that is insane is that really how
you do it so you're telling me
wait you're telling me that what I need
to do is activate this and then just
draw
okay all right I just need to grind out
this thing I mean
it's
for for
it would be nice to make it so that
um it would be nice if every part could
be ordered from them
so I think
uh what's really left here
yeah okay so this is how I did it oh
wait oh yeah
okay oh yeah yeah yeah so this ESC it
gets five volts VB or v wait V CIS gets
five
okay yeah so I did it kind of Jank I
like this way of doing it
better and then this does this have a
part number so that's great but I kind
of want to go back and find better Parts
cuz I feel
like if I just look this up in
LCSC okay maybe this is the uh the right
one basically what I'm trying to figure
out though is like did the search tool
screw me
because I might be able to get a cheaper
cost but yeah this
is yeah I love to see how they make
these CU this is probably like dude they
probably make like I don't know if they
make billions of these but dude they got
to make a lot they probably I mean there
this must be one of the most freaking
manufactured electronic parts just a
2.54 pin
header 42,000 of them
what why is there X
price for
oh what wait is that
right oh oh yeah because the minimum
number that you can buy is 10 I get it
okay
that that clear okay that's why it said
1002 200 when I went to uh to to get my
quote
what is brat brass is copper and what
tin
zinc I mean this looks so much nicer
than
mine but I think that the whole program
is designed that if you have a footprint
or a symbol that this supplier part
information you can only really put I
can't put a second supplier part
right this is just going to set it in
the existing one
oh wait no wa I think it just D
duplicated
them yeah see it just it so
yeah you can't put put two parts in the
symbol so so this way is sort of the
only way to get around it I feel
like
for
e
for for
okay I feel like I'm ready to lock in
now
so okay so what else do we
need oh wait where's my
iPad
for
e
for e
I don't know how to tell how charged
this thing is though
[Music]
okay so we have the Pico
okay let me just list out all the parts
again we have the
Pico we have the
uh
drivers we have the power supply block I
mean it's all here it's all here I don't
know what the hell I'm
on so the only main difference is that
um the pinouts have
changed there's VCC see
okay so we should be able to just
copy
this this whole thing we should be able
to just copy this
into here so we can delete let's delete
all of this so yeah so we're just going
to copy
in so this is VCC and then 5 volts is
going to come from the
ESC so um
okay
uh I we might as well ground all the
grounds
okay so we have
ground uh now we need to copy
over oops
now we need to copy
over this oh yeah and okay so this I
probably won't get this done still
because I need to do the trace withth
calculations I totally forgot about that
so what is this these are the these are
the
encoders okay so this
but I need to change those oh no I don't
need to change those oh wait hold
on why I call it dur plus step
plus I don't even know if that's right
we're just going to rename that to 1 a 1
B right so I'm going to take
this copy it
in over here
we're going to name this uh so first
off we're going
to so this is yah so let's copy this and
move it over here then we're going to
draw please tell me R is
rectangle okay great oh no it's Square
yeah okay then s for text
right no oh no not s t for text okay so
this is going to be the um
y
driver
okay then we are going to oh and we need
to actually make this
bigger we're going to move
this dude I swear this program drives me
insane
it's just so bad it's just so so
bad all of these damn Eda tools are so
bad they're cancer
bro watch this is gonna
okay uh
okay so uh we can just do is G ground
contrl
G might as well just get this
done okay so now
VCC is going to
be this
okay vdd is going to be
okay so now we just need to put another
is it
l you why is that not a hotkey I feel
like that's the most
useful maybe it's supposed to be doing
this net
label dude I don't know
man um
oh my God I'm so bad
great now we can
take this
then we can
um great we are getting
there what else do we
need so these drivers are these drivers
fully hooked up now or are we missing
anything no everything is hooked
up
great the solenoid are we going to use
this
part if I click on
this I want
to here's the part number if I go to
LCSC and I look up this what's
the oh what's a thigh
rer 40 cents so that means I'm going to
pay
$4 wait wait this one 67 I'm going pay
$6 for
him okay that's fine
e
e e
the cool thing is that this guy actually
put the colors
in run is green digital pins black uh
blue then ground black voltage red
wait why don't we just get one why don't
we just
find okay so let me I mean this is a big
part of the job right is you go to here
go to
dodes is there what what should I look
up for flyback diode
but is is reverse voltage the breakdown
voltage presumably it's got to
be
e
e e
I know I've asked this before but um
wait oh someone asked Proteus dude I've
never even heard of
Proteus who the hell is using this
bro dude I've never heard of this this
this I'm just on the face of it looks
like it
sucks yo what's up my
solenoid okay uh um yeah so
okay I'm controlling a solenoid and I
need a flyback diode and the solenoid
takes about eight amps and I would
probably like to have the flyback rated
for like 15 what's a good one uh search
upop the uh power supply is only at 12
volts so I mean those seem like high
voltage things I'm just trying to find a
part that's going to work that's as
cheap as possible
too yeah this seems pretty
good see that's a little bit
cheaper all right let's use that
so I want to redo that power supply
we've done we've done this we've done
that we've done
that we just have we just don't have the
encoders the encoders are the only thing
that we don't have
oh we need to figure out which is which
um wait how did I do that
okay so the
pinout we can just use these we can just
use these for and data clock data clock
okay
data clock
dude these flies like go into your eye
it's so
Random like
I okay so there we go and
then so I feel like that's the entire
board
nice that's way cleaner than it was
before so now we just want to design
update PCB yeah check the
Nets
uh
for for
oh we want to do it like this
dude this this thing man it's just so
unintuitive
oh we forgot about the solenoid we
forgot about the main
part we forgot about the main
part
okay uh so yeah so we can save this but
we need to go back to this
and I'm going to do this from scratch so
I'm going to start with a
rectangle we're going to
need one of
these and that connects
to okay so what is the circuit it's 12
volts goes to the solenoid and then a
diode and then this goes to the
drain right so I I also want to pick a
good I feel like that transistor is
fine it seems like a common
one so I'm down to just go
to this
and copy
this okay great so this is the gate this
is the
drain so first off we
need net flag ground net flag ground
there's two
grounds dude this these the people that
have to work on this I just feel so bad
for man it's just such a
software okay so here's what's up oops
so we also
have our
we're getting the
22 40
volts maximum
[Music]
ratings current wait three
amps non-repetitive Peak search
current
[Music]
for
for for
oh
okay okay works for
me so we need to just
um bro oh
wait that's not even
that's the one wait no part
yet dude what the
hell oh come on man
wait but that actually I don't think it
matters right
like
um couldn't I just put this in
manually for
oh for
okay I
need to uh make a symbol for this I
guess wait what am I doing
so but can I just do it
myself I want I want to know what
happens if
I do that if I do common Library
okay what if I just do this and I select
it okay and then instead of this
footprint
oh wait is the data sheet good enough
for me to actually do that where's the
geometry package AAL lead
here we
go well I don't even know what this
means k
d we can say 0. five wow they they do it
in oh yeah here we go I'm not dealing
with inches so we have 1 2
Ms okay
so wait this is for the uh the
wire this diameter
is B and that's 4.8 or that's
five I don't know I don't know how to do
the cuz
this
is oh
whoa wait why is there so
much God I hate PDF so much
let's see is that
right these leads are fatter than
that can I try to request I kind of want
to request the part the data sheet seems
good
so require new
part if you're using the free plan we
will offer you two parts per month
finishing three working days per
part all all right so
um let's see it would actually be really
cool let me do this private and then it
would be really cool if I could if I
could get my emails on
stream okay I
believe there's nothing sus here
oh
[Music]
oh no I can't there's too much that I
can't okay it's too
risky
for for
all right so this is what I sent I sent
to this
person new part require the link to the
part and I said thank you hope hopefully
they'll get back to me because it would
be very cool I don't
know to start interacting with these
people oh
wait I don't know what this
means what does Marketplace product mean
um should I just use a different
diode what is this I don't even know
what this is
okay for now uh what am I going to do
I'm just going
to all right let's make a let's just do
it
so
um so we're going to do this
new
symbol okay then what is the what is the
let's Okay so let's
go let's move this over here let's go to
this and then I want to go
here edit
symbol okay
so
um how do we do this
uh okay I'm going to do
this I'm going to do uh
this
this it's out of stock but
um dude how are they out of these it's
like one of the most common parts ever
but if I just search up one n 54
548 they got to have these in stock man
they're such a common Di
wait why don't I just use this I mean I
kind of want to know what it's like to
do a custom footprint but
um oh but you have to do um okay wait so
first I'm going to place this but I want
to actually go shift F easy Eda
footprint and then search up this okay
so we have this oh they're all user
contributed wait okay wait so when I
want to go here search for
this and then I want to edit this oh
wait but that's the
footprint
um can I edit the
symbol oh but is that
okay they're all the
same okay so oh this is literally just a
that's so funny
man do they have a measure tool
here they probably
do probably probably probably
probably so why can't I just use the
okay so I think I can so in here what
we're going to do where's the other di
that we want we want the
um we want to go to
LCSC search
this get this no part
yet but that's okay we should be able
to let's see what all do we need to
specify I guess we just need a
keep
um okay so what are we doing here we're
going to go take this generic diode but
we're going to select this we're going
to change the footprint
to uh oh well the
footprint okay well let's just get the
supplier part is that the same as this
or is it
this so in this case we're going to go
here uh uh there's no link to
it okay so what we want to know is
so this thing has a supplier part of
that that supplier part refers to LCSC
because LCSC is the supplier not the
manufacturer so the manufacturer part
number is
that and that's sort of standardized
this is just their thing so what we want
is
this so when we do this first off its
name is not going to be that it's going
to
be this so we fix the
name then we fix
the
um
manufacture on
semi the manufacturer part number is
this and then this should be get gotten
rid of and then we need to fix the
footprint but the
footprint uh we need to actually do we
need to make a custom
footprint cuz look at this this is an
SMD footprint we can't use
that suck my dick footprint how about
that
[Music]
Okay so
we um are
close but basically I want to find a a
part that has the same
footprint okay um
print okay wait what if we just do a new
footprint okay so let me just go over to
where's the data
[Music]
sheet for
first off a is not even that I don't
know where they're getting that
from that's not even right
[Music]
okay so if I do
this then I go to easy Eda then I do
shift F then I do easy Eda footprint and
then I search for
this L8 length
8 I don't know if they assemble that for
you how do they do that
for these axial lead things how do they
assemble them cuz you have to bend the
pins is there I know that the pick and
place machines typically are just SMD
how do you do something that has like
where you need to take the leads and
bend them into the holes and they you
know need to line up it seems kind of
hard
damn yeah dude it's got to be I mean
yeah that's got to be tough
I bet I bet they have all sorts of
requirements on if you're going to get
assembly done then you have to
um okay so what I want to do here is uh
click on this thing click on this thing
search on this thing
okay
nice so this
also
connected okay um
is this the
drain okay I think we're done now I
think we did it
for
all
right so I think what I want to do is
let's just get it routed we don't need
to save this we can save
this uh we can close this this is what
we are actually going to be working on
we close this this this wait which one
is
which personally I think we should just
delete both of
them all right all right design convert
schematic to PCB check
Nets oh
yeah cool
so
okay so let's do this for
so wait this
is it doesn't matter it does matter so
how do we
know I guess it's got to be like
this oh yeah and then we need the header
and then this thing
how do I know which is
which okay I just want to get
this I mean this is only the second
iteration and I've learned that you
typically want okay so we need to go to
this can we do multip we can't do multi-
tab so P2 and P1 are
together P2 and P1 yeah so we flip
these
okay uh
uh U1 is the power
supply U2 is the solenoid
oh actually what we want to do is
uh see which is the gate is this the
gate it's got to
be okay so where's the DI wow this diode
is huge man
a big ass
diode this is plus oh yeah this is BCC
so it's going to go
like this goes to an ESC
oh and this goes to that five volts
thing
okay bro it's so easy to randomly move
silk screen stuff
okay wait what is
H6 what are
these oh these go to
um encoders
wait that seems
fine wait what that seems wrong oh I
forgot to change
something wait what
that's not connected anything but this
is yeah see that's oh
wait wait this is 5
Vols I'm so confused
then why does it say that it's going to
this
pin wait a minute
that's the second from the
bottom oh
no oh no that means that this is
all
wait oh first off this oh and this needs
to be like that
but we have a serious problem
because wait these are right
though so why is
this this is one so wait we need to go
to this thing and edit the
symbol oh yeah see we did this all wrong
cuz this is the first time we one that
we did we need to flip this around this
needs to be it probably won't let me do
this but this needs to be 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9
12 13 14
15 16
awesome so we need to import the
changes so is this right
now wait can I try it
again please oh
okay there we
go for
dude what the heck is that oh my God
okay I don't I don't actually care so
we're going to just try to Route
this all
right nice it can't handle the current
but all I want to do is start to look
at for
oh
wow copper weight adds a lot I think
that's cuz I get a deal adding that
extra copper weight costs a 16 bucks man
I'm not doing that well I mean I I might
have to
but all right I want to see this too
wait free
assembly for
you have to sign oh
no so you can either do assembly or you
can do
this the thing is there's nothing I need
to stencil CU it's all through hole
right so
oh my
God oh my god
dude damn the shipping is 30 bucks
though wait why is this so expensive via
covering what even is that
dude the shipping cost is crazy
man I kind of want to have multiple
I'm kind of concerned because like
so
yeah so the overall time that I would
expect it is 4 + three
plus two days so and that's in business
days though
so so for
like we'll probably say oh and the
shipping went low why did the shipping
get
lower if I turn this off does shipping
change I don't know why shipping went
cheaper where was the quantity
I'm just exploring the pricing honestly
I'm just seeing what
what what's out there
so how many how many do I get I don't
remember what quantity oh here's the
quantity let's buy 80,000 let's just see
let's just preemptively you know I think
before even testing this we should
probably just make 880,000
look we get a look we get a $5,000
discount how could we not how could we
not
the savings only happen at a pretty high
board
count I mean it's pretty insane actually
for
$2 in like let's say 10 days I can get
this if I can backlog what I need to
do so plan this far enough in advance
and then just keep working on other
stuff it's actually a pretty sweet
deal all right so I think
um we just need to do the trace withd
stuff
though e
okay
so
um so one thing
was this
it's not really safe to say that
wait actually can
I for
oh we need to redo this
I mean that's a pretty good looking
PCB yeah man I'm sort of tempted to
order it
why would they even put that there
h
and it goes on and on and now
actually those are straight so I think
I'm going to do bet that's
okay for
oh wait can
we can we do
this wait no why we need this to be
X
for for
so we need this specific
one
sweet oh but look at that
so
for
for for
wait it's going to delete all that
okay
but okay wait let's do the trace width
calculator these guys had an actual tool
okay so the current yeah 10 amps
thickness is
one temperature rise let's go with 30
ambient temperature 25 Trace length
that's fine required Trace with
nine but wait but isn't there a
setting external or
something oh external three
2.7 should I risk
it let's see we did this is
2.5 let's see if we can make this see if
we can make this
three the problem is
that just that segment needs to be like
is it still in the keep
out I don't know I can't
tell like a freaking hair gets in
there it's like all over
we going to make this three
right wait wait if I change this to
two maybe it could handle
it see that's the
problem the footprint just of
the okay wait let's just go back to the
trace withth let's just say that we were
to get that that
um oh
wow and with a 20
increase I mean still under
two that's pretty good
so then we'd be spending about 40 bucks
for the pcbs
it's kind of a lot
to not even know if it works
um okay wait so what we want to know is
can I change
this uh current one
amp yeah wait but with 1 o
copper oh
wow even for a 10 degree
rise I mean I would make
does it decrease by half
yeah cuz these traces seem a little thin
to me to be quite honest
all right well I mean this
is probably about what it's going to be
so I'm down to call it because I have to
go have to go to school so pretty good
stream four hours to build a PCB